= Redmine SSL Auth CN Plugin

This redmine plugin enables authentication using SSL client certificates

Original code by Jorge Bernal: https://github.com/koke/redmine_ssl_auth

== Usage

* Install the plugin
* Configure apache for SSL authentication (see Configuration)
* Visit https://YOURSITE/login/ssl and it will login automatically

== Notes 

* This plugin expects the (common name) CN of the certificate to be your username, & CN must be unique
* A user with that username should exist in the database or can register
* This doesn't check any password, so implement certificate verification in Apache
* Tested with Redmine 5.0
* (c) 2016 Steve Simpson, Licensed under GLPv2

=== Plugin Installation
These are for my installation. Your mileage may vary, but should be adaptable.

  cd redmine/plugins/
  git clone https://github.com/SteveSimpson/redmine_ssl_auth_cn.git
  chgrp -R apache redmine_ssl_auth_cn
  find redmine_ssl_auth_cn -type f -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 640
  find redmine_ssl_auth_cn -type d -print0 | xargs -0 chmod 750
  export RAILS_ENV=production
  /path/to/rake redmine:plugins:migrate
  service httpd restart

Redmine's comments: http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/Plugins

== Configuration

Tutorial: http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Apache/apache-SSL.html
(I haven't reviewed it myself. But there is a lot of good information on the web about this.)

Here are some example settings, but I suggest that you dig in a little:

        SSLEngine on
        SSLProtocol all 
        SSLCipherSuite HIGH:MEDIUM

        SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server.crt
        SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server.key
        SSLCACertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/ca.crt
        
        RequestHeader set X-Proxy-Forwarded-CN "%{SSL_CLIENT_S_DN_CN}s"
        
        SSLOptions +StdEnvVars
        
        SSLVerifyDepth 3
        SSLVerifyClient required
        # SSLVerifyClient optional	
        #<Location /login/ssl>
        #  SSLVerifyClient require
        #</Location>


* By making <tt>SSLVerifyClient optional</tt>, it's possible to login without a certificate, using the regular login/password. A link is shown in the login form to require SSL authentication, see the <tt>Location /login/ssl</tt> section in the apache configuration.
* If you want to force your users to use certificates, change SSLVerifyClient to require.
* The <tt>RequestHeader</tt> line is absolutely required. That is what passes the cert to Redmine. Passenger was doing some sort of caching of ENV passed by Apache, but it did not cache the headers.
